speaking in front of five people is not
the same as speaking in front of 500 in
this video I'm going to break down some
of the key differences so you can crush
it in either situation to start off I
want to address the idea of nerves or
speaking anxiety because some people
assume that you shouldn't get nerves if
you're only speaking to a small group of
people but that's not necessarily the
case in fact some of the most nervous
experience es I have had have been in
front of a room of six or seven people
so if you are finding that you have
anxiety whether it's a big group or a
small group check out this video where I
speak about how to deal specifically
with dealing with those nerves the first
major difference in speaking to a large
group versus a small group is your
presentation style when you're on stage
in front of hundreds of people you have
have to have a big presence you have to
be loud enough so the entire room can
hear you and you have to really utilize
body language at specific points in
order to engage the audience but in a
smaller group situation this might come
across as odd if you're in a small room
with a few people and you have a big
over-the-top personality it may not come
across as being authentic authentic and
in this style of presentation what often
works better is a more conversational
tone where you're interacting with the
individuals who are in the room a key
difference between presenting to a large
group of people and a small group of
people has to do with eye contact when
in a large room especially if there is
lighting shining on you while you were
on stage it's going to be impossible to
make eye contact with every single
person in the crowd if there are
hundreds of people but it's still good
to have a general gaze in different
directions and make eye contact with a
few people periodically and maintain
that eye contact but it's more of a
sweeping motion across the room to
ensure that as many people as possible
feel as though you're looking in their
Direction but in a smaller room a
smaller group of people you have a real
opportunity to make eye contact multiple
times with every single person in that
room one strategy that works well is
holding eye contact with one person as
you finish a thought and when you move
on to the next thought you can then
change eye contact and maintain it with
a new person and this intimate setting
isn't possible in a big presentation but
it's one of the advantages of speaking
to a small group of people another
another key difference between
presenting to a large group of people
and a small group of people is the
research you can do prior to your speech
and in either situation I strongly
suggest that you do research but when
you're speaking to 500 people that
research is going to be broad maybe
everyone belongs to the same company or
is part of the same community and in
those situations you want to research
that company or that community and be
able to provide information that's
relevant and relates to as many people
in the room as possible but a great
thing of presenting to a small group of
people is you can really tailor that
research to individuals you can learn
their names before you give your
presentation to the small group you can
find out a bit of their background and
you will impress them by knowing this
information in advance even if it's the
first time you've met this small group
of people you can take your research and
therefore the examples and the relevance
that you use in your speech and Custom
Tailor it to each individual in the room
when it comes to body language there are
a few differences between presenting to
a large room of people especially if
you're on a stage versus a small group
of people especially if it's in a
smaller room and the first key
difference with a large audience is that
you want to make purposeful movements
across the entire stage and be big with
your body language and emphasize things
enough that everyone in the room even
people who are sat at the back can still
see this body language just like I
mentioned the presentation tone earlier
on all of this big body language may not
do so well in a small room of people
people so you want to adjust accordingly
perhaps your stance is a little bit more
casual in fact and this isn't something
I advise in many of my videos but if
it's a small group of three or four
people you may be fine to sit down while
presenting I'll leave it to you to judge
the formality of the room but many times
I feel a little bit awkward if I'm
standing in front of two or three people
delivering during a presentation whereas
I feel more accepted in the room if I
sit down just like they're sat down and
have an individual
conversation I'm still presenting
information however it comes across that
this is more of a conversation more of
an informal setting so in some instances
it's actually okay to be quite casual
with your body language in a small group
setting when it comes to visual aids
such as presentation slides I think
especially these are important when
you're delivering to a large group of
people and I will mention some speakers
don't use any visual aids at all and
that's okay this really comes down to
your own presentation style but in a
large room of people especially if
people are sat quite a ways away from
where you're presenting it can be
helpful to have visuals on the screen
whereas in a small group sometimes these
visuals can be helpful as well and it
makes you come across as being quite
prepared for the presentation but I
think that they're less important than
versus the big group of people and in
some instances visuals can be a little
bit distracting and can take away from
that informal conversation style that we
strive for with a small group of people
if I have a set presentation that I
deliver to large groups there is a
chance that I will reshape it completely
and adapt it to a small group setting to
include many more questions because I
believe in smaller groups it's much
better for the audience to feel as
though they're part of a conversation so
instead of me standing in front of them
and speaking to them for an hour if
there's five or six people in the room
what's more effective is to have certain
questions and discussion points and get
their feedback directly so that I can
adapt my speech and ensure the
information I am presenting is as
beneficial to each of them as possible I
find storytelling can be a little bit
different for large audiences versus
small audiences I have a few stories
that I like to tell in my presentations
that usually get quite a few laughs from
the audience and in a big group
setting I am confident that these
stories will get laughter because it
only takes one or two people to start
laughing then eventually that momentum
builds and more people will laugh and
the audience laughter I will feed off of
them that will give me energy but it's
tougher in a small group setting because
if there's only four or five people
there's no guarantees that those people
will necessarily laugh and so if I'm
being over the-top with my actions and
with my storytelling and I'm not getting
that laughter feedback from the audience
it can feel a bit deflating as a speaker
what I find is when I'm telling stories
on stage I'm louder and I'm more
dramatic with my body language and my
vocal variety versus in a smaller group
setting my voice usually comes down a
little bit and I make longer eye contact
with each person and by taking this
approach often it comes across better
it's not me putting on a performance for
these two or three people in the room
instead it goes back to that
conversational tone so the vocal variety
being loud and commanding from the stage
is a bit different especially when it
comes to storytelling with a large group
versus a small group a final key
difference between presenting to a large
large group of people and a small group
of people is that in a smaller group you
have a real opportunity to monitor the
audien's feedback and I don't want you
to get stressed or discouraged if the
audience isn't giving you a lot of
energy because that's normal in a small
group of people you aren't going to get
the same audience feedback versus
speaking to a few hundred people but you
can tell by their body language if
there's only three or four people in the
room you can tell pretty quickly if
they're enjoying your presentation if
they're smiling if they're looking at
their phones if their arms are crossed
and they look
upset by taking these visual cues from
your audience you can then tweak and
adapt your speech again to make it as
beneficial as possible so if you're in
that small room of people and they don't
seem to be engaging with what it is that
you're saying you can try a different
approach you can ask some more questions
to get them involved start getting them
participating in the discussion and you
will probably find that that body
language will change and that the
audience will become a little bit more
involved in what you are saying and when
it goes to the big crowd that you're
presenting in front of it's a bit harder
to monitor this body language maybe
further that you have to look people
might have a variety of different body
language cues that they're giving you if
there's hundreds of people so you don't
want to get caught up on that but
General themes if you're using humor and
the audience is laughing and you hear
that laughter that's a universal sign
that they're enjoying themselves if
you're seeing a lot of audience members
are getting up to leave as you're
presenting maybe your message isn't
resonating and you can shift gears and
try asking a few key audience members
questions to get the conversation a
little bit more immersive I hope this
video on how to present to a large group
of people versus a small group of people
was beneficial to you was there anything
I didn't cover let me know in the
comments and if you have not already
done so please subscribe to my channel
this is the best way you can support me
and make sure you check out this video
that's popping up on your screen right
now because I talk about how to hook
your audience's attention and this is
something that's essential whether it's
a large group or a small group you need
to capture their attention right off the
bat so I know you'll get a lot of value
out of that video and I appreciate you
watching this one